
Data Sources:
https://www.kaggle.com/sobhanmoosavi/us-Accidents
This data set contains nearly 3 million entries of car accidents in the US from 2016-2020 with 47 columns detailing location, weather, and nearby infrastructure. 

US Census population data
We used the US Census API to collect population data for New York State counties from 2016-2019.

https://datausa.io/profile/geo/new-york-ny
The data we took from this source was a table that contains household income and race data for New York counties from 2013-2019.



STEPS:

Extracting:
The original dataset that we decided to explore was the US accident dataset from Kaggle. That file was 1Gb and contained accident data from 2016-2020 from all around the USA. 
That was too large to upload to github so we narrowed our scope down to the state of New York. 

We wanted to have other information related to counties that could be used to answer specific questions about why accidents are happening in certain places. 
This led us to looking at census data for population and wealth statistics for each NY county. We got population data from 2016-2019 from the US Census API, and
wealth and race data from datausa.io. 


Transforming:
Cleaning the data had its usual set of challenges that we handled in stride. Splitting and merging datasets, altering data types, and dropping extraneous data.

As mentioned above, we trimmed down the accidents data set to NY state only. This took the size of the file from nearly 3 million lines down to about 120 thousand. 
We also dropped a few columns that didn't have data relevant to our determined scope. 

The census data was initially collected in multiple csv files and needed to be concattenated into a single file. 

The household income data set had redundant columns and data in 1st normal form. We dropped the useless columns and cleaned the others for easier use. 

Once we cleaned the files, created dataframes representative of our SQL schema. This entailed merging multiple datasources and slicing others for easier readability.


Loading:
We used AWS to host a SQL relational database that houses our data. 

To load the data into our database, _____






Questions to answer with this data:
Car Accidents to Wealth
Car Accidents to Population Density
Car Accidents to Weather
Car Accidents to Make/Model Vehicle
